Tyler Markovsky

Project Overview: Within this project, I created a Chrome Extension that fetches stock price/info relevant to whether I would invest in a company or not. This app shows stock price, daily performance in points and % change, market cap, beta, trailing and forward P/E and the company name. 


Usage Guidelines: Open the chrome extension (the chart favicon), and enter a stock ticker. Then, you can either click on the button or press 'return' on the keyboard for the results to generate. Then, the results will be displayed. 

Dependencies: I used FastAPI and YFinance API across Python (backend), and Javascript and HTML on the frontend. I also used Devtools section of Chrome to publish this as a local extension and am currently looking into publishing this code using render.com.

Project structure: main.py: the back-end of the file. All of the python code and fetching of the stock info from the YFinance API using FastAPI happens in this section. In addition, calculations, such as daily % change, whether a stock was down/up on the day, etc., are calculated here. Hello.html is the structure of the application including the width and height (dimensions) of the extension, colors used, establishing of the button to click on after entering a ticker in the input field, etc. 

Collaboration: This project was done fully by me, Tyler Markovsky

Acknowledgements: Thank you to YFinanceAPI, FastAPI, and ChatGPT in assisting me in making this project possible. 

Reflection:
This project was a lot of fun for me. Not only will I use this application after this class is over, but the lessons and skills I learned along the way of spending hours and days coding this application are invaluable. 
A few successes I had is firstly, successfully creating this extension. On the first day of class, Dr. Li stated we would all be able to create a Chrome Extension by December, and that was true. I am proud of the fact that this is a usable, helpful, customizable application. Even though I took a year long computer science course in high school in Python, creating an app like this was never possible for me before this class. A specific success I had related to this project is improving my Python and coding skills as a whole to be able to understand, debug, and resolve issues without needing the help of AI. This would not have been possible for me prior to this course, and it shows my learning and persistence on homework assignments has paid off in understanding the code for this assignment and on future CS endeavors. A specific coding process I found successful was being able to tie together all of the coding languages to work together in order to produce this completed app. Before this project, I did not fully understand and appreciate the intricacies of front-end and backend coding languages and can now safely say I proficiently understand how web design and backend processes work. 
A specific challenge I faced is integrating a color change within the price based on whether the stock was up (green), or down (red) on any given day. This was challenging as it required direct collaboration between Python, to fetch the price and calculate whether or not that price was less/more than the prior trading days closing price, Javascript, which checked whether or not the change was negative or positive, and then HTML to integrate the color change directly within the app. Because of this complexity, I did use AI to refine and suggest code to me; however, if I ask AI to refine my entire code or to code the entire application at once, it epically fails and oftentimes loses a lot of functionality I had built into the application. Something I found fun within this process was using all of the skills I have been working on both in and out of class this semester. For example, I was able to use four different coding languages to create something myself that I will be able to use after this class. Something I wanted to integrate but could not is a 5-day performance chart using a Google Charts import stack. This would not work as it added ~100+ of JS code that took much too long to render. Even though this did not work out, I was able to refine bugs and allow the extension to access mutual fund data, which was not easy. 
Oftentimes in college, I struggle to find a purpose for use of class materials after the course is over. Because CS is such a wide ranging and relevant topic, building something that is useful is applicable, and more possible than most realize. In the future, I hope to continue my studies within the world of CS. I am continuously blown away by the negligence of people within the fact that people do not care at all about how any of the paradigm shifting technology used every day actually works; they take it for granted. As humans have developed so much technology and better ways of life through their existence, the fact that some human invented and refined everything we use today is lost. Because of this, I will continue to appreciate those who take risks, build things, and innovate society towards an exciting future. 
Overall, although, as Dr. Li touched on in our final class, coding may soon be obsolete due to GenAI tools, I believe there are numerous parallels within life and challenges faced within coding that apply to life as a whole. 
